#summary Storage module

==  Introduction  ==
The <b>Storages</b> module provides a set of storage services allowing an application
to store data files, documents, images in a persistent area.

== Ada Beans ==
<h3>Permissions</h3><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="10%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="70%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>storage-create</td>
<td>workspace</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>storage-delete</td>
<td>awa_storage</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>


== Data Model ==
<h4>AWA.Storages.Models.Storage_Data</h4><p>The database storage data when the storage type is DATABASE.</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="15%" align="left">Type</th>
<th width="15%" align="left">Ada</th>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="50%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the storage data identifier</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the storage data version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BLOB</td>
<td>blob</td>
<td>data</td>
<td>the storage data when the storage type is DATABASE.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h4>AWA.Storages.Models.Storage</h4><p>The database storage data when the storage type is DATABASE.</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="15%" align="left">Type</th>
<th width="15%" align="left">Ada</th>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="50%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the storage identifier</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the storage data version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td>Time</td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the local store creation date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>AWA.Storages.Models.Storage_Type</td>
<td>storage_type</td>
<td>the storage type.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>data</td>
<td>the storage specific data</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>Storage_Data</td>
<td>storage_id</td>
<td>the storage that this local store refers to.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>AWA.Workspaces.Models.Workspace</td>
<td>workspace_id</td>
<td>the workspace that this storage belongs to.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h4>AWA.Storages.Models.Store_Local</h4><p>The local store record is created when a copy of the data
is needed on the local file system.  The creation date refers to the date when
the data was copied on the local file system.  The expiration date indicates a
date after which the local file can be removed from the local file system.</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="15%" align="left">Type</th>
<th width="15%" align="left">Ada</th>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="50%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the local storage identifier</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the local storage version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td>Time</td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the local store creation date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td>Time</td>
<td>expire_date</td>
<td>the local store expiration date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>name</td>
<td>the local store path</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>Storage</td>
<td>storage_id</td>
<td>the storage that this local store refers to.</td>
</tr>
</table>




----
[http://code.google.com/p/ada-gen Generated by Dynamo] _from awa-storages.ads_
