#summary Blogs module

== Introduction ==
The *blogs* plugin is a small blog application which allows users to publish articles.

<h3>Ada Beans</h3><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="30%">Name</th>
<th width="70%">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>post</td>
<td>This bean describes a blog post for the creation or the update</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>postList</td>
<td>This bean describes a blog post for the creation or the update</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>postStatusList</td>
<td>A localized list of post statuses to be used for a f:selectItems</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>adminPostList</td>
<td>The admin post list is used for the blog administrator.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>adminBlogList</td>
<td>The list of blogs that the current user can access and update.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Information about the current blog.</td>
</tr>
</table><h3>Permissions</h3><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="20%">Name</th>
<th width="10%">Name</th>
<th width="70%">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog-create</td>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Permission to create a new blog.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog-delete</td>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Permission to delete a blog.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog-create-post</td>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Permission to create a new post.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog-update-post</td>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Permission to modify a post.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>blog-delete-post</td>
<td>blog</td>
<td>Permission to delete a post.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h3>Database Model</h3><h4>AWA.Blogs.Models.Blog</h4><p>Blog </p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the blog identifier</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the blob version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>name</td>
<td>the blog name</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>uid</td>
<td>the blog uuid</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td></td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the blog creation date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>AWA.Workspaces.Models.Workspace</td>
<td>workspace_id</td>
<td>the workspace that this blob belongs to.</td>
</tr>
</table>

      <h4>AWA.Blogs.Models.Post</h4><p>Post in a blog</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<td>BIGINT</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the post identifier</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the post version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>title</td>
<td>the post title</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(256)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>uri</td>
<td>the uri</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VARCHAR(60000)</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>the blog text content</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td></td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the post creation date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td></td>
<td>publish_date</td>
<td>the post publication date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td></td>
<td>status</td>
<td>the post status</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>AWA.Users.Models.User</td>
<td>author_id</td>
<td>the post author</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>Blog</td>
<td>blog_id</td>
<td>the blog that this post belongs</td>
</tr>
</table>

      


