#summary Module workspaces

== Introduction ==
The *workspaces* plugin defines a workspace area for other plugins.
The workspace is intended to link together all the data objects that an application
manages for a given user or group of users.  A workspace is a possible mechanism
to provide and implement multi-tenancy in a web application.  By using the workspace plugin,
application data from different customers can be kept separate from each other in the
same database.

== Ada Beans ==
<table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="30%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="70%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>workspace</td>
<td>This bean allows to perform some general workspace actions</td>
</tr>
</table><h3>Permissions</h3><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="10%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="70%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>workspaces-create</td>
<td>workspace</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>


== Data Model ==
<h4>AWA.Workspaces.Models.Workspace</h4><p>
The workspace allows to group all together the different
application entities which belong to a user or a set of collaborating users.
Other entities, for example a Blog, a Wiki space, will link to a
single workspace.

The workspace has members which are allowed to access the entities
that are part of the workspace.  A workspace owner decides which user
is part of the workspace or not.
</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="15%" align="left">Type</th>
<th width="15%" align="left">Ada</th>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="50%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the workspace identifier.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the storage data version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td>Time</td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the workspace creation date.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BIGINT</td>
<td>AWA.Users.Models.User</td>
<td>owner_fk</td>
<td>the workspace owner.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h4>AWA.Workspaces.Models.Member</h4><p>
The workspace member indicates the users who are part of the workspace.
</p><table width="100%">
<tr>
<th width="15%" align="left">Type</th>
<th width="15%" align="left">Ada</th>
<th width="20%" align="left">Name</th>
<th width="50%" align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BIGINT</td>
<td>ADO.Identifier</td>
<td>id</td>
<td>the member identifier.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>int</td>
<td></td>
<td>version</td>
<td>the workspace member version.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATETIME</td>
<td>Time</td>
<td>create_date</td>
<td>the member creation date.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BIGINT</td>
<td>AWA.Users.Models.User</td>
<td>user_fk</td>
<td>the workspace member.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>INTEGER</td>
<td>Workspace</td>
<td>workspace_fk</td>
<td>the workspace.</td>
</tr>
</table>





----
[http://code.google.com/p/ada-gen Generated by Dynamo] _from awa-workspaces.ads_
