#summary Build and installation notes

= Requirements =

AWA and all its components have been compiled and tested on the following
platforms:

  * GNAT 2011 on Windows7 (gcc 4.5.3)
  * GNAT 2011 on Ubuntu (gcc 4.5.3)
  * gcc 4.4.3 on Ubuntu
  * gcc 4.6.2 on Ubuntu

You will need:

  * The AWS web server (compiled with SSL support),
  * The XML/Ada library,

To build on Windows, you will need the [http://www.mingw.org/ Mingw32 Msys] package.  To be able to create a new project with Dynamo you will also need [http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/autoconf.htm AutoConf for Windows].

= Configuration =

On Unix platforms, configure with:

{{{
  ./configure --prefix=/usr
}}}

On Windows, you can configure with:

{{{
  ./configure --prefix=d:/installation/dir
}}}

If you don't have XML Ada or AWS installed, you can use the package present in the `external` directory.  To enable them, configure with:

{{{
  ./configure --enable-xmlada --enable-aws
}}}

= Building external packages =

Before building AWA, you should have installed the XML Ada and the AWS
packages.  If you have not them, you should build them and install them first.  You can build them by downloading the sources or you can
use the sources available in the `external` directory.  For this,
make sure the configure script was executed with the
`--enable-xmlada --enable-aws` options.  For example:

{{{
  ./configure --enable-xmlada --enable-aws
}}}

The XML Ada sources are extracted in the *xmlada* directory and
the AWS sources are extracted in the *aws* directory.  A utility script
is provided to help in the build


= Build =

For all plateform, you should build with make as follows:

{{{
  make
}}}

= Manual Build =

In case of problem, you could also build by using gnatmake or gprbuild.
In that case, you have to build each component individually:

{{{
  cd util && gnatmake -p -Putil
  cd el && gnatmake -p -Pel
  cd asf && gnatmake -p -Pasf
  cd ado && gnatmake -p -Pado
  cd awa && gnatmake -p -Pawa
  cd dynamo && gprbuild -p -Pdynamo
}}}

= Installation =

After the packages are built, you can install them as follows:

{{{
make install
}}}